---
title: Assignment 1 - String Builder
toc: false
---

# Overview

In this assignment you will be working with Strings, implementing different functionalities. Most of these are already implmented as String functions, but the idea is to have you learn how to use Strings while also refreshing yourself on core Java concepts.

# Getting Started

Download the `A1.java` file [here](A1.java). In it, there's an empty main method. the first thing you want to do is create 2 strings. Have the first string hold the value "abba" and "cddc". The variable names can be anything you want!

Once you do this, implement the following functionality:

1. Print the character at index 2 for both strings. Remember, Java starts its indexing at 0!
2. Find the first index that holds the character 'b' in both strings. Print out this index. If it doesn't exist, then print -1.
3. Find the last index that holds the character 'c' in both strings. Print out the index, and if it doesn't exist then print -1.
4. Print the reverse of both strings
5. Swap the halves of the strings and print out the resulting 2 strings. In this case, the result would be "abdc" and "cdba", where we swapped the second half of the first and second strings.

Note: The only String method you are allowed to use is `length()`. Furthermore, these implementations should work for any string, not just the example ones (if I change the values of the variables you define, it should work as intended).

Use the String API from lecture 2 as a guide of what these functionalities might return and how to use strings in general.

Good luck!
