---
title: Assignment 3 - Minecraft Arrays
parent: Part 3 - Wrapping Up Basics
nav_order: 4
---

# Assignment 3 - Minecraft Arrays

## Overview

This assignment is fairly straightforward and is primarily array manipulation. In the popular video game Minecraft, you can organize blocks into various shapes (google if you are confused). Let's assume that I want to make a house in Minecraft, and lay out the floorplan with various blocks. However, I realize that my window is not facing the beautiful lava lake outside. Write a program that can take in a 2D array and rotate it 90 degrees. Have the ability to take in an argument to rotate counter/clockwise, along with how many rotations to do. For the purposes of this assignment, the values in the array can be anything (but obviously distinguish them so you know the rotation worked). You can use integers, Strings, chars - anything you want. This must be able to work for any size floorplan. I'll have some examples below.

Part two is the exact same thing, but now we have 3D arrays. Before we were looking at only the floorplan but now we also have walls. This means that each block on the floor now has another array that represents the wall going up at that block. This array can be jagged, meaning that not all the walls need to be the same height, so keep that in mind.

## Examples

Rotating 90 degrees clock wise:

```1, 1, 2      3, 1, 1
1, 2, 1  ->  2, 2, 1
3, 2, 4      4, 1, 2
```

Rotating 270 degrees counter clock wise when it's not a square 2D array:

```1, 1, 3, 2      3, 1, 1
1, 2, 4, 1  ->  2, 2, 1
3, 2, 1, 4      1, 4, 3
                4, 1, 2
```

The 3D array ones would be the exact same but each number would be an array of numbers. Regarding jagged arrays, a jaggeed 2D array might look like:

```1, 2, 3, 4
2, 3, 4
2, 3
```

Here, we have 3 rows, but each row has a varying number of columns. The only way to make this is by hard coding it on initializing:

<!-- ```java
int arr[][] = {{1, 2, 3, 4}, {2, 3, 4}, {2, 3}};
``` -->

Try to see how you can do this for a 3D array for testing, and what other implications this might have

## Getting Started

So this assignment is interesting because it'll test you on how much Java you've learned so far. Therefore, you don't get *any* starter files. How you choose to design this is all up to you! The only requirements are to have the following function signatures:
`rotate2D(arr[][], int numRot, boolean clockwise)` and `rotate3D(arr[][][], int numRot, boolean clockwise)` <br/>
Outside of this, there are no restrictions, requirements, or anything else on how you choose to design and lay out your code. Exciting right?

Good luck!
