---
title: Assignment 2 - Resizable Arrays
parent: Part 2 - Object Oriented Programming
nav_order: 4
---

# Assignment 2 - Resizable Arrays

## Overview

In the previous lecture, we learned about the ArrayList class in Java - an array that can dynamically change size based on how many elements there are. Well how exactly does it work? We're going to find out by implementing a version of it ourselves.

ArrayLists basically work by wrapping around a large array. It separately keeps track of the number of elements that have been inserted into it, since the array may not be completely full. Once the array fills up, the ArrayList creates a new, larger array, and then copies over all the elements it stores into the expanded array. This provides the guise of a dynamically changing list from the user end.

## Getting Started

First, download the [`A2.java`](A2.java) and [`ResizableArray.java`](ResizableArray.java) files. In `A2.java` you should see a method called `selectionSort()` along with the standard `main()` method. In `ResizableArray.java` you should see a class that has an integer array as it's field. ArrayLists can hold *any* Java type, but since this is still early on in our intro to Java, we'll have our ResizableArray class only work with integer lists for simplicity.

Functionality to implement:

1. Fill in the ResizableArray constructor
2. Fill in the basic helper functions: `isEmpty()`, `size()`, and `resize()`
3. Fill in the `insert()` and `append()` methods
4. Fill in the `indexOf()` and `get()` methods
5. Fill in the `remove()` and `clear()` methods

Once this is done, our class is ready to use! I've provided some basic tests in the main method that will test the functionality of `ResizableArray`. The other way that we will use the class is by implementing a sorting method that runs on it.

{: .note}
Some tests may rely on others. For example, if you don't insert properly, `get()` won't pass, even if implemented properly. Keep this in mind when going through any tests that don't pass

In the previous lecture we learned about insertion and bubble sorts. This time, you will implement a new sorting method - selection sort. Check the comments in the `selectionSort()` function in `A2.java` for pseudocode. Also, feel free to Google anything you want to see how to implement/use selection sort. If selection sort is implemented properly, the last test in the `main()` method should also pass.

## Compiling and Running

For multi-file projects, we can just compile all Java files by using `javac <file1.java> <file2.java> ..` in the VSCode terminal. Then run it normally by doing `java MainClass` where `MainClass` is the class with the main method

Good luck!
